CHAPTER I—THE PARSONAGE
All true histories contain instruction; though, in some, the treasure may
be hard to find, and when found, so trivial in quantity, that the dry,
shrivelled kernel scarcely compensates for the trouble of cracking the
nut.  Whether this be the case with my history or not, I am hardly
competent to judge.  I sometimes think it might prove useful to some, and
entertaining to others; but the world may judge for itself.  Shielded by
my own obscurity, and by the lapse of years, and a few fictitious names,
I do not fear to venture; and will candidly lay before the public what I
would not disclose to the most intimate friend.
My father was a clergyman of the north of England, who was deservedly
respected by all who knew him; and, in his younger days, lived pretty
comfortably on the joint income of a small incumbency and a snug little
property of his own.  My mother, who married him against the wishes of
her friends, was a squire’s daughter, and a woman of spirit.  In vain it
was represented to her, that if she became the poor parson’s wife, she
must relinquish her carriage and her lady’s-maid, and all the luxuries
and elegancies of affluence; which to her were little less than the
necessaries of life.  A carriage and a lady’s-maid were great
conveniences; but, thank heaven, she had feet to carry her, and hands to
minister to her own necessities.  An elegant house and spacious grounds
were not to be despised; but she would rather live in a cottage with
Richard Grey than in a palace with any other man in the world.
Finding arguments of no avail, her father, at length, told the lovers
they might marry if they pleased; but, in so doing, his daughter would
forfeit every fraction of her fortune.  He expected this would cool the
ardour of both; but he was mistaken.  My father knew too well my mother’s
superior worth not to be sensible that she was a valuable fortune in
herself: and if she would but consent to embellish his humble hearth he
should be happy to take her on any terms; while she, on her part, would
rather labour with her own hands than be divided from the man she loved,
whose happiness it would be her joy to make, and who was already one with
her in heart and soul.  So her fortune went to swell the purse of a wiser
sister, who had married a rich nabob; and she, to the wonder and
compassionate regret of all who knew her, went to bury herself in the
homely village parsonage among the hills of ---.  And yet, in spite of
all this, and in spite of my mother’s high spirit and my father’s whims,
I believe you might search all England through, and fail to find a
happier couple.
<BOUNDARY>
Of six children, my sister Mary and myself were the only two that
survived the perils of infancy and early childhood.  I, being the younger
by five or six years, was always regarded as _the_ child, and the pet of
the family: father, mother, and sister, all combined to spoil me—not by
foolish indulgence, to render me fractious and ungovernable, but by
ceaseless kindness, to make me too helpless and dependent—too unfit for
buffeting with the cares and turmoils of life.
Mary and I were brought up in the strictest seclusion.  My mother, being
at once highly accomplished, well informed, and fond of employment, took
the whole charge of our education on herself, with the exception of
Latin—which my father undertook to teach us—so that we never even went to
school; and, as there was no society in the neighbourhood, our only
intercourse with the world consisted in a stately tea-party, now and
then, with the principal farmers and tradespeople of the vicinity (just
to avoid being stigmatized as too proud to consort with our neighbours),
and an annual visit to our paternal grandfather’s; where himself, our
kind grandmamma, a maiden aunt, and two or three elderly ladies and
gentlemen, were the only persons we ever saw.  Sometimes our mother would
amuse us with stories and anecdotes of her younger days, which, while
they entertained us amazingly, frequently awoke—in _me_, at least—a
secret wish to see a little more of the world.
I thought she must have been very happy: but she never seemed to regret
past times.  My father, however, whose temper was neither tranquil nor
cheerful by nature, often unduly vexed himself with thinking of the
sacrifices his dear wife had made for him; and troubled his head with
revolving endless schemes for the augmentation of his little fortune, for
her sake and ours.  In vain my mother assured him she was quite
satisfied; and if he would but lay by a little for the children, we
should all have plenty, both for time present and to come: but saving was
not my father’s forte.  He would not run in debt (at least, my mother
took good care he should not), but while he had money he must spend it:
he liked to see his house comfortable, and his wife and daughters well
clothed, and well attended; and besides, he was charitably disposed, and
liked to give to the poor, according to his means: or, as some might
think, beyond them.
<BOUNDARY>
At length, however, a kind friend suggested to him a means of doubling
his private property at one stroke; and further increasing it, hereafter,
to an untold amount.  This friend was a merchant, a man of enterprising
spirit and undoubted talent, who was somewhat straitened in his
mercantile pursuits for want of capital; but generously proposed to give
my father a fair share of his profits, if he would only entrust him with
what he could spare; and he thought he might safely promise that whatever
sum the latter chose to put into his hands, it should bring him in cent.
per cent.  The small patrimony was speedily sold, and the whole of its
price was deposited in the hands of the friendly merchant; who as
promptly proceeded to ship his cargo, and prepare for his voyage.
My father was delighted, so were we all, with our brightening prospects.
For the present, it is true, we were reduced to the narrow income of the
curacy; but my father seemed to think there was no necessity for
scrupulously restricting our expenditure to that; so, with a standing
bill at Mr. Jackson’s, another at Smith’s, and a third at Hobson’s, we
got along even more comfortably than before: though my mother affirmed we
had better keep within bounds, for our prospects of wealth were but
precarious, after all; and if my father would only trust everything to
her management, he should never feel himself stinted: but he, for once,
was incorrigible.
What happy hours Mary and I have passed while sitting at our work by the
fire, or wandering on the heath-clad hills, or idling under the weeping
birch (the only considerable tree in the garden), talking of future
happiness to ourselves and our parents, of what we would do, and see, and
possess; with no firmer foundation for our goodly superstructure than the
riches that were expected to flow in upon us from the success of the
worthy merchant’s speculations.  Our father was nearly as bad as
ourselves; only that he affected not to be so much in earnest: expressing
his bright hopes and sanguine expectations in jests and playful sallies,
that always struck me as being exceedingly witty and pleasant.  Our
mother laughed with delight to see him so hopeful and happy: but still
she feared he was setting his heart too much upon the matter; and once I
heard her whisper as she left the room, ‘God grant he be not
disappointed!  I know not how he would bear it.’
